REACH Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 -- Substances of Very High Concern (SVHC): Candidate List Obligations

Article 57 (Substances to be included in Annex XIV)
The following substances may be identified as substances of very high concern and included in the Candidate List in accordance with the procedure set out in Article 59:
(a) substances meeting the criteria for classification as carcinogenic category 1A or 1B;
(b) substances meeting the criteria for classification as germ cell mutagenic category 1A or 1B;
(c) substances meeting the criteria for classification as toxic for reproduction category 1A or 1B;
(d) substances which are persistent, bioaccumulative and toxic (PBT) in accordance with the criteria set out in Annex XIII;
(e) substances which are very persistent and very bioaccumulative (vPvB) in accordance with the criteria set out in Annex XIII;
(f) substances -- such as those having endocrine-disrupting properties or those having persistent, bioaccumulative and toxic properties or very persistent and very bioaccumulative properties, which do not fulfil the criteria of points (d) or (e) -- for which there is scientific evidence of probable serious effects to human health or the environment which give rise to an equivalent level of concern.

Article 59 (Identification of substances referred to in Article 57)
This Article establishes the procedure for including a substance on the Candidate List. Once ECHA's Member State Committee reaches unanimous agreement (or the Commission decides in the absence of agreement), the substance is added to the published Candidate List. Inclusion on the Candidate List is the trigger for the Article 33 and Article 7(2) obligations below; it does not by itself restrict use, sale, or manufacture of the substance.

Article 33 (Duty to communicate information on substances in articles)
1. Any supplier of an article containing a substance included in the Candidate List referred to in Article 59(1) in a concentration above 0.1% weight by weight (w/w) shall provide the recipient of the article with sufficient information, available to the supplier, to allow safe use of the article including, as a minimum, the name of that substance.
2. On request by a consumer, any supplier of an article containing a Candidate List substance above 0.1% w/w shall provide the consumer with sufficient information, available to the supplier, to allow safe use of the article, including, as a minimum, the name of that substance. This information shall be provided free of charge within 45 days of the request.

Article 7(2) (Notification of substances in articles to ECHA)
Any producer or importer of articles shall notify ECHA if a substance meets both of the following criteria:
(a) the substance is included in the Candidate List published under Article 59(1);
(b) the substance is present in those articles above a concentration of 0.1% weight by weight (w/w), AND the total quantity of the substance present in all articles produced or imported by that producer/importer exceeds one tonne per year.
Since 5 January 2021 this notification is made via ECHA's SCIP database (established under the Waste Framework Directive 2008/98/EC as amended), which is separate from, but triggered by, the same 0.1% w/w threshold as Article 7(2).

Practical screening threshold used throughout this system: 0.1% w/w (1000 ppm) of a Candidate List substance in any homogeneous component of a product is the trigger for the Article 33 / Article 7(2) / SCIP obligations. This is a communication/notification obligation, not a ban -- a verdict of NON_COMPLIANT for an SVHC substance means "the notification/communication duty is triggered and, on the evidence available, does not appear to have been met," not "this product is illegal to sell."
